# Project Replicability Assessment
Jacob Novorr CIST-624 University at Albany

This project analyzes and interprets data collected from the Institute of Museum and Library Services in order to discover whether or not physical libraries are falling out of favor in the eyes of the general public and if they are becoming obsolete in the wake of the Information Age. The technologies used are Microsoft Excel using the linear regression tool that is provided in its "Datapak" add on, and a random forest algorithm that was created and compiled using Python. These sources combined allow for the data to be analyzed as to whether it has an increasing or decreasing trend, and from there the random forest will make conclusions based on whether the trends support of oppose the conclusions that libraries are indeed becoming obsolete. The code source is included within this repository as well as the Excel file that includes both the linear regression analysis sheets and the data itself. The dataset is a set of eight different factors that have to do with the performance and circulation of materials within public libraries from four of the most populous states (California, Florida, New York, and Texas), and these include the annual visits to the libraries statewide, the circulation of hard copy books, e-books, audio books, and video books, the amount of time people spend on the libraries' Wi-Fi services, and the downloads of audio and video books electronically.

Firstly, to utilize the linear regression model utilized in Excel, open up Excel, click on File, navigate to Options, and in the window that pops up, click on Add-ins on the left hand side, and where it says "Manage: Excel Add-ins", click Go. From there, make sure that Analysis ToolPak is checked off, and then click OK. Once that is complete, open the Data ribbon within Excel and from there click on Data Analysis within the Analysis section. In the window that opens, select Regression in Analysis Tools and click OK. After this is complete, the Regression window will open, allowing for a input of y range and x range, these are for the independent and dependent variables respectively. As such, for each of the eight sheets containing the data, the y range will be the column of fiscal years, and the x range will be all the columns to the right of that column. After the two ranges are entered, click on OK and another sheet will be created containing the results of the linear regression analysis. As for the Python code, the code source is included within this repository, so all that would be needed to do is to copy and paste the code within that text file into Python. From there, follow the instructions as they are written when you run the code in order to have one of three statements be produced, and using those statesments, a conclusion will then be derived as to whether libraries are truly becoming obsolete or not. It is welcome to test out the code for oneself using test values and ensure that it is indeed working properly.

Using the tools and guidance within this predictive model, it is hoped that whoever utilizes this program is able to gain a perspective on how libraries are performing within the eyes of the general public and how often they use the valuable resources that they provide. From the insights gained, one is able to acquire a better understanding at how much these resources are actually being used to their fullest potential and, at their discretion, can spread awareness of what they find so that they can put forth an effort either to bolster the use of libraries further, or save them from being lost within the pages of history and becoming a mere relic of the past.

Resources:

Institute of Museum and Library Services (2010-2019). “Public Library Survey.” https://www.imls.gov/research-evaluation/data-collection/public-libraries-survey 
